The President: This week, I
authorized
two operations in Iraq.
First, I directed our
military to take action
to protect our American
diplomats and military
advisors serving in
the city of Erbil.
In recent days, terrorist
forces neared the city.
Thursday night, I made
it clear that if they
attempted to advance
further, our military
would respond with
targeted strikes.
That's what we've done.
And, if necessary, that's
what we will
continue to do.
We have Americans serving
across Iraq,
including our embassy in
Baghdad, and we'll do whatever
is needed to protect
our people.
Second, we've begun a
humanitarian effort
to help those Iraqi civilians
trapped on that mountain.
The terrorists that have
taken over parts
of Iraq have been especially
brutal to religious
minorities-rounding up
families, executing men,
enslaving women, and
threatening the systematic
destruction of an entire
religious community,
which would be genocide.
The thousands-perhaps tens
of thousands-of Iraqi
men, women and children who
fled to that mountain
were starving and
dying of thirst.
The food and water we
airdropped
will help them survive.
I've also approved
targeted American
airstrikes to help Iraqi
forces break
the siege and rescue these families.
Earlier this week, one
anguished Iraqi
in this area cried to the world,
"There is no one
coming to help."
Today, America is helping.
The United States cannot
and should
not intervene every time there's
a crisis in the world.
But when there's a
situation like
the one on this mountain-when
countless innocent people
are facing a massacre, and
when we have
the ability to help prevent
it-the United States
can't just look away.
That's not who we are.
We're Americans.
We act.
We lead.
And that's what we're
going to do on that mountain.
As one American who wrote
to me yesterday said,
"it is the right thing to do."
As Commander-in-Chief, I
will not allow
the United States to be dragged
into fighting another
war in Iraq.
American combat troops
will not be returning
to fight in Iraq, because
there's
no American military solution to
the larger crisis there.
What we will do is
continue
our broader strategy in Iraq.
We will protect
our citizens.
We will work with the
international
community to address this
humanitarian crisis.
We'll help prevent these
terrorists from having
a permanent safe haven from
which to attack America.
And we'll continue to
urge Iraqi communities
to reconcile, come together
and fight back against
these terrorists so the
people of Iraq
have the opportunity for a
better future-the opportunity
for which so many Americans
gave their lives in Iraq
in a long and hard war.
Today, we salute our
brave men and women
in uniform-especially our
courageous pilots
and crews over Iraq.
They're protecting
our fellow Americans.
They're helping save the
lives of innocent
people on a mountain-people who
today know that there's
a country called America
that cares for them,
too, and that is willing to
stand up-not just
for our own security, but for
the dignity and freedom
that belongs to all people.